# Mars Rover Technical Test

## A tool used to assign Mars Rovers and execute manuoeuvres on a grid

## Local setup

Prequisites:

* Node version v18.4.0+
* Typescript v4.7.4+

Run `tsc` in command line from the root directory to compile the tool 

## Running the tool

Run `npm run start` in command line from the root directory

## Testing the tool

Run `npm run test` in command line from the root directory

# Design

## Initial assessments

Each Rover has a dependency on a shared grid system.

Rovers can be an instance of the same type.

The grid system can be a class constructed as a singleton to allow for each Rover to access the same grid. This would be called Area.

Each Rover must update the Map's grid either through its own methods or through those attached to the Area.

## Issues with implementations

The dependency between the Rovers and the Area causes problems with where to store the location of the Rover. Logically this should be the Area's grid, however, it is clear that the Rover must make a request to the Area to move itself to a new location, and without the Area knowing who's making this request, the Rover must tell the Area which Rover is making the request when asking to move itself across the grid. This has a code smell which I was uncomfortable with developing.

The grid system must be generated by the initial input (`5 5`), which requires a looping system capable of working in two dimensions. This grid would be generated inside the singleton, likely at construction time.

Movement should be independent of the current direction and location with which it is being moved to/from, i.e. a Rover should be able to request to "move forwards" or "turn left" and "turn right" abstract from its location or current direction.

## Decision on design

I decided that it would be best to attempt to develop the "code smell solution" in which:
* The Area is generated initially
* The Area's grid property is generated as part of construction
* Each Rover is instantiated with the new Area instance and the initial starting position of the Rover as its constructor arguments
* The path of each Rover is executed through its internal method, taking the path to travel as its argument